# Pi FAQs 
FAQs about Pi Network
__Disclaimer:__ This FAQ is in addition to [FAQs of official Pi Network](https://minepi.com/faq), and contains some of my own interpretations. 
__Sources:__ The content of this FAQ comes from [official website](https://minepi.com/faq), Pi Network App Chats and some actual things happened around the community and in the news.
## What is Pi coin, and Pi Network?
Pi is the first digital currency for *everyday people*, can be mined on your phone. With the vision to be he world’s *most widely used* cryptocurrency
You can learn more about Pi from https://minepi.com/white-paper. 

## Is Pi Network a scam? Is the App safe?
I did some research on the core team members of Pi, the Pi community and the things they have done, it is pretty clear that Pi Network does not resemble any scam or con artist in the past, it is at least not an obvious scam :) All core team members have solid credentials, and Stanford University, is the world-leading player (the very best) in Blockchain technology. The Pi project has been incubated for years and now it is executed following the schedule drafted in Whitepaper. I also observed that they stick to their mission statement and was not swayed by some of the community opinions. The community, including the Chats are pretty serious as well. No signs that this could be a scam. Moreover, the team even developed a charity app "FeverIQ" to help battle COVID-19, something very unusual, especially when the team are pretty tight on budget.

The Pi Network App also feels very safe: it does not ask for your email address, actual name, gender, age, address (or even zipcode), credit card number or banking account information, it does not request permission to access your location, WiFi or Bluetooth, camera, photos, calendar, etc. It only needs your phone number to verify you are a real person and if you log in with Facebook, your don't even need to provide your phone number. It will ask for Notification, which is controlled by you, but you do NOT want to turn it off, unless you have an alarm set to remind you to mine at the time.


## What are tips on mining?
Mining is pretty simple! You can just start using the App (register with an invitation code, anyone should work, but if you want someone who will be active almost all the time, here are a few to choose from: LinO7, binliu0601, yeyearn, dongmeigui, Tridwoxi, scipri) and it's quite straight-forward, if you still don't know how to mine. Go to Youtube and find a video... 

One thing you do need pay attention to is the 24-hour mining session. Each time you hit the "Mine" button, it'll turn green, and the top of the screen showing the changing amount, it is mining. Sometimes the "Mine" button is spinning after you hit it or sometimes the total amount is not updating, it is OK. It indicates you are in _"Pi Lite" mode_, it happens when the system is updating/upgrading or it maybe a way to reserve resources or it can even be a way to fend off robots.

Missing a session will cost you some Pi, it'll also cost your inviter and invitees some Pi too. And you can not get Pi faster by purchasing more powerful hardware, you can only accumulate it through time. So, try your best not to miss a session, even hours.

If you just joined, you'll be mining at 0.25pi/hour, after 3 sessions (3x24hours), you can enable security circle by adding your inviter, then your mining speed is at 0.29pi/hour. If you want more mining speed, you need invite more people by letting people register with your invitation code (to be an ambassador) and add people to your security circle (contributor role, 5 is enough).

## Does Pi have value?
In terms of actual money or things you can exchange, at this point (June 2020), no*. But Pi definitely has value: value comes from consensus. As long as there are enough people (community) that think Pi has value, it has a value. Pi coin does not cost money, but it is not free, it takes time and effort to accumulate and if you want to get it faster you'll have to spend more effort to build consensus - cost more time, which will translate to value.
* _Except a few pioneers who did KYC and can do internal transfers_

## How much can Pi worth?
This is a question everyone asks, but since Pi is not at the phase you can exchange it yet (except for a few early Pioneers), it is hard to estimate how much it worth. The official answer is 0 now simply because you can't use it. Moreover, even after the mainnet is on, and we all have our digital wallets, the value of Pi depends on the other currency (or things) you value it against, and how much consensus among Pi community. 

I've seen people providing wide range of estimates, most common from $10-$200. I've seen some one used 1200pi in exchange of a RMB 180000 ads for a year, and use 30.5pi for a US$399+tax LED TV, there are more "private" (semi-legal) exchanges of Pi I've heard and seen, but none of them really mean much at this point because we don't have many people who can even transfer and receive Pi. At the same time, there are people predicting pi will worth less than $1 because too many Pi coins are out there and too many people have it, including people from developing countries - they may sell it at a low price; while others predicts Pi can worth $300 or even $10,000 a piece because Pi will have a huge demand (to exchange things and to run DApps), plus the actual Pi in circulation will be much smaller than expected due to the KYC limitations, many miners won't be able to get their invitees pass KYC and that part of contribution will not be added to the total. 

Regardless, the price vs a fiat currency (or Bitcoin) will likely fluntuate once Pi enters Phase 3 (mainnet running) and people can trade it with things and other money, people who are willing to sell at a low price will probably sell it and eventually when the price stablizes, it'll reflect the true value of Pi. But please bear in mind that the vision of Pi Network is not to make Pi an "expensive" coin like Bitcoin or gold, but to make it more like a most accessible form of money, like US Dollars.

## Does Pi practice MLM (Multi-Level Marketing) or even Ponzi Scheme? 
At first, we know it is definitely not a Ponzi Scheme, simply because you do not front any of your own money, if you don't spend any money, no one can cheat your money away.

But does it employ [MLM (Multi-level marking)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-level_marketing) to entice people to join and somehow cheat your Pi coins away? Pi does reward advocator when they invite more people to mine together, but is it a pyramid structure? To answer this question, we need look at what MLM is.  Multi-level marking has a distinguish feature that "the earnings of the participants are derived from a pyramid-shaped or binary compensation commission system."  In Pi Network, there is no such a commission or rebate system. Everyone is equal, the invitor and invitee share a portion of their individual mining power *if and only if* they both mine at the same time, i.e. having a strong consensus. This is to build consensus and probably no better way can be used.  Furthemore, your earning team and your invitee's or inviter's earning teams are all independent, you can't see who are in their earning teams, and their earning teams' work won't have any impact on your earning power.

If you're still not convinced, let's look at an example, an _extreme_ example: imagine the earth's 7.2 billions of people all joined Pi Network, exactly one by one, forming a single chain. In MLM case, the first person will get most money because a portion of the "downline" will be attributed to that person. But in above single chain Pi Network, it really doesn't matter if you're the first, the 100th, the 100,000th, the 1,000,000,000th or the 7,000,000,000th person, you will earn exactly the same amount of money, and if you switch the order or permutate the chain, the earnign power won't change. In fact, the person you invite will ear at 0.29pi/hour (just being a sole miner), while you will add 0.10pi/hour (0.098 to be exact - which I don't know why, maybe a tax?). 

In short, Pi Network's invitation mechanism is engineered to build consensus, the order of invitation is NOT important, how many people before you in the invitation chain is also not important, you can switch the relationship with the person who invited you, and it wouldn't impact your earning power at all. Your earning power is only determined by how many people you established consensus with, i.e., you must mine at the same time to generate Pi. It is that simple.

## Does it worth spending time to mine Pi or be an ambassidor?
It definitely depends on how you view Pi and the community and where you want to spend your time or how much you value your time. For beginners, several seconds a day to start mining is no brainer, and you can accumulate 6-7pi a day (2500/year). If in the future, Pi worth $10 (the low end of main stream estimate), you earn $25000/year by spending several seconds a day, not a bad deal, IMHO (unless you're Bill Gates or Jeff Bezos, whose every second will worth a lot:-).  To get more pi, you need invite your family and close friends, build up a team of 5, this probably takes about minutes or hours, depending on how convincing you are, then you can earn $0.88+/day (7500/year). For even more pi, you will have to be a bigger ambassidor, and advocate in your social networks and public platforms to get more people to participate, then it'll be hard to measure the time you spend there. But it is your choice. If pi ends up worth $200/pi, and you accculated 10000 pi coin, you may get $2Million for the work you've done, quite impressive return over $0 money investment and some amount of time. Even if you guy stock, you'll have to spend time (probaby more) researching which stock to buy and when to buy (monitoring the market? :-). Mining pi has the highest ROI IMHO, for most people.

Other benefits of mining Pi / joining Pi community include to learn about fundamentals of digital currency, blockchain technologies, to make new friends or old friends closer especially when you establish consensus. But most of all, it can refresh your mind, overcome some of your old understandings. For example, you may think only the governments can make/produce money, but after mining pi a while, especially with the success you helped to make Pi the most widely used cryptocurrency, you will realize that the privilege the government is endowed by you - We the People - we, individuals and companies, actually can also, and probably should also, have the right to make money, like Pi, if we can convince others to build concensus. It is also time to pursue individual freedom too.

## Will Pi's vision even be possible?
(Note: this is an opinion) No one can accurately predict the future. I could be wrong, Pi Network could fail, or it could succeed. The cost of trying out is low, as low as only seconds a day, but the cost of missing out can be very high (hundreds of thousand or millions of $). You can always take your time to decide, but without actions, there won't be outcome. As Napoleon Hill said in his book "Think and Grow Rich", ""If you do not see great riches in your imagination, you will never see them in your bank balance."
